# SEAM
SEAM final project as partial fulfillments for CSS123L - Object Oriented Programming Laboratory Course. Powered by Java.

    Description 

A School Equipment Acquisition and Monitoring (SEAM) system is a system (in this context a piece of software) that is able to register, remove, and monitor classroom equipment that was acquired within a school. For this project (henceforth referred to as SEAM), SEAM in question is an application written in the Java programming language with a graphical user interface (GUI) built using JFrame. The application was designed using principles of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), utilizing concepts of classes and methods and applying OOP principles such as Inheritance, Abstraction, Aggregation, Polymorphism, and Encapsulation. Furthermore, the application utilizes Gang of Four (GOF) design patterns, namely Factory Method and Singleton, both of which are under Creational patterns (explained in detail in the Project design section).  

The basic function of SEAM is to simplify the process of equipment assignment for each classroom graphically. With this function in mind, the application was tailored to manage up to five distinct types of classroom equipment that may be allocated to up to three classrooms: Printer, Projector, Speakers, Smartboard, and Tablet. A user can allocate a specific item to a specific room and update the status of the equipment which indicates its present condition. Equipment can be assigned the following statuses: "Excellent,” “Great,” “Good,” ‘Decent,” “Poor,” “Needs Replacement,” “Missing,” “Disposed.” These conditions enable a user to monitor the items and simplify the decision process, that is, whether to repair, replace, or find a piece of equipment, or leave it as it is. SEAM also enables the user to create a report that shows a list of equipment that needs to be purchased by the school for replacement (whether such equipment was broken beyond repair or lost) as well as providing an overall status report of the current inventory of available equipment. 

 

    Purpose 

SEAM aims to assist school staff in registering, removing, and monitoring equipment acquired by a school. It provides a solution for managing the inventory of equipment owned by a school by providing its users the capacity to add or remove equipment, assign and change the statuses of such equipment, as well as a function to generate a report about the condition of all available equipment and a report about equipment that is needed to be purchased by the school. With these functions in mind, SEAM allows school administrators to make quick and important logistical decisions by just simply generating a report about the equipment possessed by the school. Such a function will reduce the time it takes to replace essential equipment needed by each classroom, prevent unnecessary purchases, and overall enable a school to have an organized approach to resource planning and acquisition. Furthermore, being built on OOP principles, SEAM can be maintained easily and is scalable, and the design itself is simplified and clear to understand through the available UML diagrams detailing the application structure and design. In short, SEAM provides an effective solution for efficiently managing school resources, reducing delays in resource acquisition, and increasing productivity both on the staff's end and on the student's and teachers' ends as well. 

 

    Benefit 

SEAM offers various advantages to its users, which makes the application a useful tool for schools that are looking for an easy and efficient system of managing and monitoring their equipment. SEAM works by way of centralizing the functions of assigning, removing, and monitoring equipment, as well as providing reports on such equipment. In this way, SEAM effectively removes the burden of manually tracking the equipment from the school staff and guarantees that important resources are in their appropriate condition and are available for use by each classroom. Furthermore, the system reduces the risk of equipment being lost as each piece of equipment that is registered into the system must be assigned a condition, as well as necessitating updating equipment conditions from time to time to ensure minimal discrepancies between the actual inventory and the system. This function thereby promotes cost-effectiveness and ensures that resources have a longer lifespan. Besides management, SEAM also provides detailed reports that can help school administrators in resource planning and management for future resource acquisitions. The availability of this data on hand instantaneously at the click of a button makes the school prepared for spontaneous resource shortages and other unforeseen logistic setbacks. Ultimately, SEAM is a useful and reliable tool that will help a school manage its resources effectively, leading to reduced risk of resource loss, promoting cost-effectiveness and resource longevity, and overall increasing productivity and minimizing operational downtime. 
